# Fees & Expenses - Construction Wizard

**Define the management fees and expected fund expenses.**

## Management Fees

By default, Tactyc will start off with a management fee of 2.0% on committed capital for 10 years. You can edit the following:

- **Value:** Fee Percentage (%)
- **Fee Basis Methods:** We support multiple fee-basis methods (see below)
- **Start Month:** the starting month for a fee tier
- **End Month:** the ending month for a fee tier

### Supported Fee Basis Methods

| Fee Basis | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Committed Capital** | In each period, fee is charged based on the total committed capital to date by LPs only |
| **Called Capital Each Period** | Fee is charged based on the called capital in that period |
| **Gross Cumulative Called Capital** | Fee is charged on cumulative called capital to date |
| **Net Cumulative Called Capital** | Fee is charged each period based on the total called capital to date from LP's less capital returned to LP's to date |
| **Cumulative Invested Capital** | Fee is charged based on cumulative invested capital (initial and follow-on investments) to date |
| **Fair Market Value** | Fee is charged based on the fair market value of active investments each period |
| **Unrealized Investments** | Fee is charged based on the total cost basis of unrealized active investments |

### Examples

#### Committed Capital
- 2.0% Fee
- Total Committed Capital in Period 1: $50mm, Period 2: $100mm
- **Fee in Period 1: $50mm x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 2: $100mm x 2.0%**

#### Called Capital
- 2.0% Fee
- Called Capital: Period 1: $1mm, Period 2: $0mm, Period 3: $2mm
- **Fee in Period 1: $1mm x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 2: $0mm x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 3: $2mm x 2.0%**

#### Net Cumulative Called Capital
- 2.0% Fee
- Cume Called Capital in Period 1: $10mm (Returned: $0mm)
- Cume Called Capital in Period 2: $20mm (Returned: $2mm)
- **Fee in Period 1: ($10mm - $0mm) x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 2: ($20mm - $2mm) x 2.0%**

#### Cumulative Invested Capital
- 2.0% Fee
- Cume Invested Capital: Period 1: $10mm, Period 2: $20mm
- **Fee in Period 1: $10mm x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 2: $20mm x 2.0%**

#### Fair Market Value
- 2.0% Fee
- Unrealized FMV: Period 1: $10mm, Period 2: $20mm
- **Fee in Period 1: $10mm x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 2: $20mm x 2.0%**

#### Unrealized Investments
- 2.0% Fee
- Cost basis of unrealized Investments: Period 1: $10mm, Period 2: $20mm
- **Fee in Period 1: $10mm x 2.0%**
- **Fee in Period 2: $20mm x 2.0%**

### How to model step-downs in fees?

Let's say your fund's fee structure is:
- 2.0% for first 5 years
- 1.5% thereafter

To model this structure, you will create **2 different fee tiers** as follows. To add a fee tier, click on **Add Fee Tier** at the bottom of the Management Fees section.

### How to model different fees for different LP's?

You can create multiple fee profiles for each LP and in a later Limited Partners section, point LP's to their specific fee. To create multiple fee profiles:

- Click on **"+"** icon next to **Default Fee Profile** to create a new fee definition
- Enter a name for this fee profile for e.g. Class B LP Fees and click on **Add Fee Tier**. This will create a new fee profile from scratch.
- Later in the wizard, in the Limited Partners section, you can point your Class B LP's to this fee profile.

### How to model management fee recycling?

Management fee recycling means the fund can recycle exit proceeds up to the level of management fees earned to date. To turn this on, for each fee tier, open the **Optional: Management Fee Recycling** section and enter the % of fees that can be recycled from that tier.

## Fund Expenses

Similar to management fees, fund expenses can be defined on a line-item basis.

- Click on **Add Expense**
- Enter the **Expense Category**
- Enter the expected **Monthly Amount**
- Enter the **Start Month** and **End Month** i.e. the term of the expected expense

---
*Last updated 1 year ago*