# Allocations - Construction Wizard

**Allocations are where you define the types of investments your fund will be making. Think of these as "investment profiles".**

The **Current Allocations** shows your currently defined allocations. Click on **+ New Allocation** to create a new allocation or click on any of the allocations to edit their parameters.

In the first section for each allocation, define the following:

- **Allocation Name:** a friendly name for this allocation for e.g. "Seed Investments"
- **Sector Profile:** select the sector profile to be used for this allocation. Tactyc will use the round sizes and valuations from that sector profile to determine future calculations
- **Entry Round:** select the entry round from the sector profile
- **Capital Allocation (%):** the percentage of investable capital that will be used to make initial and follow-on investments in this allocation

## Initial Check Strategy

- Initial check size can be entered either as an Amount or as a Entry Ownership (%). For e.g. a 10% Entry Ownership means, the model will invest the amount needed to get a 10% ownership in the portfolio company

- Tactyc will automatically show some helpful calculations such as:
  - Implied Entry Ownership (if you're entering check size amount)
  - Number of initial investments expected in this allocation
  - Total Capital Allocated towards initial investments in this allocation

## Follow-On Strategy

- Similar to the initial check section, you may enter a follow-on check size amount for future rounds or ask Tactyc to maintain ownership (%).

- **Follow-on Participation (%):** This is where you set how often you expect to follow-on. Setting this to 100%, means the fund will follow-on into every single graduation. Setting this to 50%, means the fund will follow-on 1 in 2 graduations.

- The helper calculations show the implied follow-on check sizes, graduations, number of follow-ons and capital allocated

## Initial Investment Horizon and Pacing

Finally, set your **Initial Investment Horizon** i.e. the time period over which you expect the fund to make initial investments in this allocation.

## What's happening under the hood?

Let's say your fund's investable capital is $100mm, and you've defined a Seed allocation with capital allocation of 40%. This means $40mm of capital will be used to make initial Seed investments and any follow-on investments for those Seed companies.

- **Based on your initial check size**, Tactyc estimates how many initial investments your fund can make
- **Based on the graduation rates** from your sector profile, Tactyc estimates how many companies will end up graduating
- **Based on your follow-on participation %,** Tactyc estimates how many companies the fund will follow-on into

This $40mm will then be further allocated towards initial and follow-on investments based on the relative proportions of initial and follow-on investments. What this means is if you lower your follow-on investments, your initial investments will increase - as there is more capital left over to make initial investments. Conversely, if you increase follow-ons, your initial investments will decrease.

To summarize, Tactyc will always end up fully deploying the entire $40mm of capital - the relative shifts between initial and follow-ons is determined by the check sizes in each category.

---
*Last updated 1 year ago*